# Flocking-Simulation
Simulate flocking behavior (Processing Application, Java version). Everytime the user clicks on the center rectangle they will produce 20 or so autonomous objects that will continue on their vectors that have velocities that were randomly generated. Top left hand corner will have 3 drag bars, these bars govern the autonomous objects impulses towards other objects that come within their permimeter (100 pixels). 

The 3 bars are mapped to the three formulas Craig Reynolds (from PlayStation) came up with; they will either increase or decrease "cohesion," "seperation," and "alignment." These formulas alter the intention of the autonomous object, and allows the object to "decide" what it wants to do next. It gives off the look and appeal that the user is merely turning up inclinations (or decreasing them) and causing a desired result, without directly telling the object what to do. A side note - If only social engineerers had such a tool for consumers behaviors and choices. 	

Without getting too meta and by looking at one autonomous object on the canvas we can see how these three apply. Turning up cohesion causes the object to draw near other objects on the canvas. Turning up seperation causes the object to try to seperate from other objects. Turning up alignment causes the object to mimic and adjust it's velocity with objects which causes the flocking like behavior Craig Reynold's is known for. What I like about this last formula, that Daniel Shiffman points out in his book, "The Nature of Code,"  is that with enough seperation and alignment, at the right level, you really get a beautiful work of art, where objects recognize other objects, see their trajectory (their velocity) and adopt it within their own while they keep a "healthy" distance, but also are staying within each other's perview, like a flock of birds.
